#218 rewrite (#263)
dcdpr/did-btc1: chapters/Index.md

A conforming **did:btcr2** resolver is any algorithm realized as software
and/or hardware that complies with the relevant normative statements in
[4\. DID Resolution](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-resolution/#resolving) of
the DID Resolution specification and the [Resolve] section of this
specification.

---

## Terminology

Aggregate Beacon

: An Aggregate Beacon enables multiple entities (possibly controlling
multiple DIDs and possibly posting multiple updates) to collectively
announce a set of ::BTCR2 Updates:: in a ::Beacon Signal::.

There can only ever be one ::BTCR2 Update:: per **did:btcr2** in a ::Beacon
Signal:: from an Aggregate Beacon.

Aggregate Beacons

: ::Aggregate Beacon::

Authorized Beacon Signal

: An Authorized Beacon Signal is a ::Beacon Signal:: from a ::BTCR2
Beacon:: with a ::BTCR2 Beacon:: address in a then-current DID document.

Authorized Beacon Signals

: ::Authorized Beacon Signal::

Beacon Address

: The Bitcoin address of a ::BTCR2 Beacon::. Spends of ::UTXO:: controlled
by this address are identified as ::Beacon Signals::.

Beacon Addresses

: ::Beacon Address::

Beacon Aggregator

: The entity that coordinates the protocols of an aggregate ::BTCR2

> Beacon::. Specifically the Create Beacon Cohort and Announce Beacon Signal
> protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beacon:: in order to establish a ::Beacon Cohort:: and aggregate ::BTCR2 Update Announcements:: in a ::Beacon Signal::. 
```

The named protocols no longer exist in the spec.

Beacon Cohorts

: ::Beacon Cohort::

Beacon Participant

: A member of a ::Beacon Cohort::, typically a DID controller, that
controls cryptographic keys required to partially authorize spends from a
::Beacon Address::.

Beacon Participants

: ::Beacon Participant::

Beacon Signal

: Beacon Signals are Bitcoin transactions that spend from a ::BTCR2
Beacon:: address and include a transaction output of the format
`[OP_RETURN, OP_PUSH_BYTES, <32_bytes>]`. Beacon Signals announce one or
more ::BTCR2 Updates:: and provide a means for these updates to be
validated against the Beacon Signal.

The type of the ::BTCR2 Beacon:: determines how these Beacon Signals are
constructed and processed to validate a set of ::BTCR2 Updates:: against
the 32 bytes contained within the Beacon Signal.

Beacon Signals

: ::Beacon Signal::

Beacon Type

: The type of a ::BTCR2 Beacon::. The Beacon Type defines how ::BTCR2
Update Announcements:: are included within a ::Beacon Signal:: broadcast on
the Bitcoin network. It also defines how the content committed within
::BTCR2 Update Announcements:: can be validated against the ::Beacon
Signal::.

Beacon Types

: ::Beacon Type::

BTCR2 Beacon

> : A a service listed in a BTCR2 DID document that informs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: A service listed in a BTCR2 DID document that informs
```

resolvers how to find authentic updates to the DID. It must be either a
::Singleton Beacon::, ::SMT Beacon::, or a ::Map Beacon::.

BTCR2 Beacons

: ::BTCR2 Beacon::

: ::BTCR2 Beacon::

BTCR2 Update

: A capability invocation secured using Data Integrity that invokes an
authorization capability to update a specific **did:btcr2** DID document.
This capability invocation Data Integrity proof secures the ::Unsecured
BTCR2 Update:: document.

BTCR2 Updates

: ::BTCR2 Update::

BTCR2 Update Announcement

> : A 32 byte SHA256 hash committing to a ::BTCR2 Update:: that has been

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: A 32-byte SHA256 hash committing to a ::BTCR2 Update:: that has been
```

Unsecured BTCR2 Updates

: ::Unsecured BTCR2 Update::

Unsigned Beacon Signal

: The Bitcoin transaction of the ::Beacon Signal:: before its transaction
inputs have been signed, effectively spending these inputs.

Unspent Transaction Output

: A Bitcoin transaction takes in transaction outputs as inputs and creates
new transaction outputs potentially controlled by different addresses. An
Unspent Transaction Output (UTXO) is a transaction output from a Bitcoin
transaction that has not yet been included as an input, and hence spent,
within another Bitcoin transaction.

UTXO

: ::Unspent Transaction Output::

Unspent Transaction Outputs

: ::Unspent Transaction Output::

UTXOs

: ::Unspent Transaction Output::

---

## Syntax

A **did:btcr2** Decentralized Identifier (DID) consists of a `did:btcr2`
prefix, followed by an `id-bech32` value, which is a
[Bech32m](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0350.mediawiki)
encoding of the following data:

* `version` \- the specification version the DID was created against;  
* `network` \- the Bitcoin network the DID can be used on; and  
* either:  
  * a `key-value` representing a secp256k1 public key; or  

>   * a `hash-value` representing the hash of an initiating external DID
>     document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * a `hash-value` representing the hash of a ::Genesis Document::.
```

::BTCR2 Update Announcements:: through a ::Beacon Announcement Map::. To do
so, it constructs a map where the key is the **did:btcr2** identifier and
the value is the hash of the corresponding ::BTCR2 Update::. The Beacon 
Signal contains a SHA256 hash of the map.

If a ::BTCR2 Update:: is not publicly discoverable (i.e., is not published
to a ::CAS:: under its hash), the only parties with access to the update are
the DID controller and any parties they gave it to (etc.). 

For a ::Map Beacon::, proof of non-inclusion of a **did:btcr2** identifier
is simply its absence from the map. 

The type of a service defining a ::Map Beacon:: in a DID document is
"MapBeacon".

### SMT Beacon

An ::SMT Beacon:: creates a ::Beacon Signal:: that commits to multiple
::BTCR2 Update Announcements::, each identified by a **did:btcr2**
identifier. To do so, it constructs an optimized ::Sparse Merkle Tree:: as
defined in [Appendix SMT - Optimized Sparse Merkle Tree Implementation] and
publishes the Merkle root.

An ::SMT Beacon:: provides maximum privacy for the DID controller, as the
DID controller never has to reveal their DIDs or ::BTCR2 Updates:: to the
aggregator.

> The type of a service defining a ::SMT Beacon:: in a DID document is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The type of a service defining an ::SMT Beacon:: in a DID document is
```

"SMTBeacon".

---

## Aggregation

Aggregation is how did:btcr2 minimizes on-chain transactions when updating

> DID documents. Rather than every DID update needing a separate transaction,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DID documents. Rather than every ::BTCR2 Update:: needing a separate transaction,
```

as in BTCR, DID controllers can use ::Aggregate Beacons::, such as ::SMT
Beacon:: and ::Map Beacon::. Listed in their repsective DID documents,
these beacons enable an aggregator to broadcast Beacon Signals that contain
updates for any number of DIDs and DID controllers. 

The participants in aggregation are as follows.

* DID controller \- A party that controls one or more **did:btcr2**
  identifiers participating in a ::BTCR2 Beacon::.  
* ::Beacon Cohort:: \- The set of unique cryptographic keys participating
  in a ::BTCR2 Beacon:: that make up its n-of-n MuSig2 Bitcoin address.  
* ::Beacon Aggregator:: \- The entity that coordinates the protocols of an

>   Aggregate ::BTCR2 Beacon::, specifically the "Create Beacon Cohort" and
>   "Announce Beacon Signal" protocols.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Aggregate ::BTCR2 Beacon::.  
```

* ::Beacon Participant:: \- A member of a ::Beacon Cohort::, typically a
  DID controller, that controls cryptographic keys required to partially
  authorize the broadcasting of a ::Beacon Signal:: to the Bitcoin
  blockchain.  
* Verifier \- A party verifying a **did:btcr2** identifier presentation.

How coordination between an aggregator and multiple ::Beacon Participants::
is managed is out of scope, but the result of the interactions between

> members of the cohort is a trustable Beacon Signal on the bitcoin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
members of the cohort is a trustable Beacon Signal on the Bitcoin
```

* Minimum and/or maximum time between signals.  
* Number of pending updates that trigger a signal.

### No Privileged Role
Although aggregation **does** depend on some party (or protocol) acting as
the coordinator and publisher of Beacon Signals, that role may be satisfied
by any party. To ensure that the aggregator gains no specific benefit with
regard to the authority to publish a Beacon Signal, aggregations
SHOULD use a protocol that ensures every participant in the cohort has
explicitly signed the Beacon Signal itself. We anticipate that future
innovations in Bitcoin will enable alternative forms of assurance. However,
today, we recommend an n-of-n Schnoor signature where each participant
explicitly signs in a provable manner.

### Worst Case
Since aggregation depends on others, it should be expected that any given
Beacon might fail. Perhaps the aggregator stops providing the service or a
peer in the cohort stops signing their portion of the Beacon Signal.

The best practice to avoid complete failure is to have at least one
::Singleton Beacon:: in every DID document, ensuring a fallback mechanism
should all Aggregate Beacons fail.

> However, even in the case of failure at the Aggregation layer, only two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, even in the case of failure at the aggregation layer, only two
```

negative consequence are possible.

First, if the Beacon Signal does not require n-of-n signing, a hostile

> Cohort (or Aggregator) could invalidate the DID by publishing an Beacon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cohort (or Aggregator) could invalidate the DID by publishing a Beacon
```

Signal with a malformed update.

Second, when the Beacon Signal does require n-of-n signing, a hostile
Cohort (or Aggregator) could render that Beacon inoperable, preventing

> publication of DID Updates through that address. However, this has no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
publication of ::BTCR2 Updates:: through that address. However, this has no
```

[**Example 2.1** - A Genesis Document]{.example-caption}

```{.json include="json/CRUD-Operations/genesis-document.json"}
```

[**Example 2.2** - The Genesis Bytes for the above Genesis
Document]{.example-caption}

`b'\xe4\xedJwv\t\xca;\xbc\xa9\x9f\x80\xb9\x82\xf5q\x14\x1dX\x8f;\x9b\x80=O\xbe$\xa3st\x1b\xe8'`

#### Algo 3: Encode Identifier {.tabbed .unnumbered}

The identifier uses a
[bech32m](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/BIP_0350#Bech32m) encoding of input
bytes composed of the version, network and ::Genesis Bytes::. The value of
the version MUST be 1. The value of the network declares which Bitcoin
network anchors the identifier and MUST be selected from the table below.

The input bytes to the bech32m algorithm are constructed as follows: the
first byte is the version and the network, with the version minus one in
the low nibble and the value from the network table in the high nibble. The
Genesis Bytes are then appended to the first byte to produce the input
bytes. Encode the input bytes using the bech32m algorithm with the
human-readable part (hrp) value set to the ASCII value of either 'k' or
'x', depending on the type of the identifier. For **did:btcr2** identifiers

> generated from an initial secp256k1 public key, use 'k' for *did:btcr2*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generated from an initial secp256k1 public key, use 'k' for **did:btcr2**
```

verify this document according to [Algo 7. Verify Genesis Document].

Second, iterate through ::Beacon Signals:: posted to the Bitcoin blockchain
using [Algo 8. Process Beacon Signals] processing them according to their
::Beacon Type::. Processing ::Beacon Signals:: retrieves the announced
::BTCR2 Update:: for the DID being resolved. The algorithms for processing
::Beacon Signals:: according to their ::Beacon Types:: are as follows: for
::Singleton Beacons:: use [Algo 9. Process Singleton Beacon Signal];  for
::Map Beacons:: use [Algo 10. Process Map Beacon Signal]; for ::SMT
Beacons:: use [Algo 11. Process SMT Beacon Signal].

::BTCR2 Updates:: announced with ::Beacon Signals:: are then applied to the
DID document. ::BTCR2 Updates:: MUST be invocations of the capability to
update the DID being resolved. To verify this, the resolver MUST first
derive the root capability from the DID itself using  [Algo 12. Derive Root
Capability], then verify and apply the invocation using [Algo 13. Apply
BTCR2 Update].

Traverse the blockchain and apply updates in temporal order, updating and
maintaining a ::Contemporary DID Document:: until all updates are

> processed. At each stage, the Contemporary DID Document defines the ::BTCR2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
processed. At each stage, the ::Contemporary DID Document:: defines the ::BTCR2
```

Beacons:: active at that point in time; those Beacons – and only those
Beacons – are checked for updates.

Continue traversing the chain until all timely, authentic ::Beacon
Signals:: have been processed and their announced updates have been applied
in order.

The resulting DID document is the canonical DID Document and MUST be
returned to the caller of the resolver function in a resolution response
which can be constructed following [Algo 14. Construct Resolution Result].

NOTE. If there are no updates, the ::Initial DID Document:: is returned.

#### Algo 4. Process Resolution Inputs {.tabbed .unnumbered}

This algorithm processes the resolution inputs from a resolution request.
First, parse the identifier string, then process the resolution options.

First take the identifier string, validate it according to the [DID
syntax](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-1.1/#did-syntax) and decode it to
retrieve the identifier type, version, network and ::Genesis Bytes::.

> The identifier string MUST consist of three components separated by a ‘:’
> character. The first component MUST be the string "did", the second
> component MUST be "btcr2" and the third component is the BTCR2-specific
> identifier. Otherwise an INVALID_DID error MUST be raised.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The identifier string MUST consist of three components separated by a ‘:’
character. The first component MUST be the string "did", the second
component MUST be "btcr2" and the third component is the BTCR2-specific
identifier. If the second component is not "btcr2" a METHOD_NOT_SUPPORTED error 
MUST be raised, otherwise for all other errors an INVALID_DID error MUST be raised.
```

Missing the METHOD_NOT_SUPPORTED case

byte in this table.

| Value | Network          |
|:------|:-----------------|
| 0     | bitcoin          |
| 1     | signet           |
| 2     | regtest          |
| 3     | testnet3         |
| 4     | testnet4         |
| 5     | mutinynet        |
| C     | custom network 1 |
| D     | custom network 2 |
| E     | custom network 3 |
| F     | custom network 4 |

Any value not in the table MUST result in an INVALID_DID Error.

To validate the ::Genesis Bytes::, check the hrp value. If hrp is ‘k’, the
::Genesis Bytes:: MUST be a 33-byte representation of a compressed
secp256k1 public key. If hrp is ‘x’, the ::Genesis Bytes:: MUST be a
32-byte SHA256 hash of a ::Genesis Document::. If these conditions are not
met, or hrp has any other value, it MUST result in an INVALID_DID Error.

Then the resolution options of a resolution request MUST be processed and
the following fields MUST be used to execute the request:

* versionId: The versionId of the DID document targeted by this resolution
  request. If there is a DID document with this versionId, it MUST be
  returned in the resolution result.
* versionTime: A UTC timestamp that is targeted by the resolution request.

>   The resolve MUST return the Contemporary DID Document at this time as

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The resolver MUST return the Contemporary DID Document at this time as
```
?

##### Hide {.unnumbered .unlisted}

##### Examples {.unnumbered .unlisted}

[**Example 16.1** - A Map Beacon Service]{.example-caption}

```{.json include="json/Beacons/MapBeacon-service.json"}
```

[**Example 16.2** - An SMT Beacon Service]{.example-caption}

```{.json include="json/Beacons/SMTBeacon-service.json"}
```

#### Algo 17. Create Canonical BTCR2 Update {.unnumbered .tabbed}

This algorithm constructs and invokes a ::BTCR2 Update:: to a specific DID
document.

A ::BTCR2 Update:: is a JSON object that MUST contain the following
properties:

* @context - A context array containing the follow context URLs  
  * `"https://w3id.org/zcap/v1"`  
  * `"https://w3id.org/security/data-integrity/v2"`  
  * `"https://w3id.org/json-ld-patch/v1"`  
  * `"https://btcr2.dev/context/v1"`  
* patch - A JSON Patch
([RFC6902](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6902)) object that
defines a set of transformations to be applied to a DID document. The
result of applying the patch MUST be a conformant DID document according to
the [DID core v1.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-1.1/) specification.  
* targetVersionId - The versionId of the DID document after the patch has

> been applied. When constructing an BTCR2 Update to a DID document with a
> specific versionId, the targetVersionId MUST be one more than this
> versionId.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
been applied. The targetVersionId MUST be one more than the
versionId of the DID document being updated.  
```

* sourceHash - A base64 encoded SHA256 hash of the canonicalized DID
document that the patch MUST be applied to. The DID document MUST be
canonicalized using the [JSON Canonicalization
Scheme](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8785) (JCS).  
* targetHash - A base64 encoded SHA256 hash of the canonicalized DID
document that results from applying the patch to the source document. The
DID document MUST be canonicalized using JCS.  
* proof - A [Data Integrity](https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-integrity/)
proof with the proof purpose set to "capabilityInvocation". This MUST be a
valid invocation of the capability to update the DID document of the
did:btcr2 identifier being resolved. The root capability to update a
specific did:btcr2 identifier’s DID document can be derived from the
identifier following [Algo 12. Derive Root Capability]. The data model for
the capability invocation is specified in the [Authorization Capabilities
specification](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/zcap-spec). The following
properties MUST be set to specific values:  
  * capability - the identifier of the root capability to update a specific
    did:btcr2 DID document  

>   * invocationTarget - the did:btcr2 identifier whose DID document is being
>     updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * capabilityAction - this MUST be the string value "Write".
  * invocationTarget - the did:btcr2 identifier whose DID document is being
    updated.
```

  generation algorithm specified in
  [BIP327](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0327.mediawiki).

This response SHOULD be sent over a secure communication channel and MAY be
signed.

#### Algo 21. Aggregate & Request Signal Confirmation (Aggregator) {.unnumbered}

Once the ::Beacon Aggregator:: has received responses to an update
opportunity from all ::Beacon Participants:: in the ::Beacon Cohort:: they
can proceed to aggregate the update announcements into a unsigned ::Beacon
Signal::. They then send this signal, along with the information required
to confirm its construction, to each of the participants. Additionally,
aggregators aggregate the MuSig2 nonces from each Beacon Participant
following the nonce aggregation algorithm in
[BIP327](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0327.mediawiki).

Aggregation of updates into a Beacon Signal depends on the type of ::BTCR2
Beacon::.

* For Map Beacons, the aggregator creates a ::Beacon Announcement Map::
that maps indexes provided by participants to ::BTCR2 Update
Announcements::. The ::Signal Bytes:: included in a Map Beacon Signal is
the SHA256 hash of the Beacon Announcement Map.  

> * For SMT Beacons, the aggregator constructs a ::Sparse Merkle Tree::. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For SMT Beacons, the aggregator constructs a ::Sparse Merkle Tree:: (SMT). The
```

index provided by a ::Beacon Participant:: is the index of a leaf node,
with the value of this leaf being the value provided by the participant for
that index. All indexes registered with the aggregator MUST have values at
their leaves within the SMT. Once constructed, the ::SMT:: is optimized and
individual SMT proofs are generated for each index and shared with the

> ::Beacon Participant:: that registered the index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::Beacon Participant:: that registered the index. The ::Signal Bytes:: of a SMT Beacon Signal is the 32 byte SMT root.
```
